# Method Of Visualization Explanation 

In this assignment, a heat map, a bar chart, and a line chart were used for the visualizations. Though these visualizations utilized the same information, they all told different stories. The heat map emphasized the significance of values through color intensity and highlighted relationships in the data. An example of this is the darker the orange, the higher the value and we were able to see the patterns based upon this observation. The colors were strategically chosen as reds and orange are associated with more intensity while culturally, blue is represented as cool and calm. The bar chart and the heat map compare in the way color is manipulated to emphasize certain information. The gray solidifies information that should not be focused on while the color does. The way they contrast is present in the way the bar chart is not as precise with its values like the heat map but is precise with the location. Having the location names written out is easier to understand than abbreviations. For example, DEU may not initially look like Germany but it is Deutschland. In comparison to the line chart, I believe they differ from the heat map and the bar graph as I can see stark differences over time. The way they compare is through color utilization to differentiate and emphasize certain data

With my specific line chart, I chose to utilize all of these elements. First with the color, I chose colors that were colorblind friendly and that would differentiate each value from each other. I also used a subset of the data to focus on a couple of years before and after the event to emphasize the impact. I chose a regular font as I wanted to associate my graph as something that was serious instead of using a cursive or loopy font. I also decided to include a line of demarcation to show the exact point in time the audience should draw their attention to. These design fundamentals were able to tell a story of the data I chose to display. 


[Home Page](https://haleena426.github.io/Phillips-Haleena-Portfolio/)
[Back to Visualizing Governemnt Debt with Tableau](https://haleena426.github.io/Phillips-Haleena-Portfolio/assignment2.html)
